hey guys welcome to my channel today
we're gonna talk about things phrases
and words that American would never say
and would never use so here interested
continue watching this video
thing number one if Americans want to
tell you something directly they would
only tell you a positive thing they
would never tell you oh my god you look
so bad today are you sick or something
cuz this is really impolite and I know
is some cultures especially in mind
people would do that they would tell you
oh my got your dress exactly you should
go change of course not everyone but
this is pretty common especially when
people are trying to seem helpful but
they're still kind of offending you like
oh my god have you seen that bruise on
your neck let me tell you how to treat
it
and you were like trying to hide it I
don't know so this is not something that
Americans would do the furthest that
they would go about your well-being they
would ask you how you're doing today and
if you're in the mood to share things
then you would share and they might
offer their help but they would never
say something bad or offending directly
they would just be very polite and they
would think about your like private
space on the other side they would be
really direct about positive things like
oh my god I love your dress and this
happens all the time I just walk in the
street and people would come up to me
and tell me like hey I love your jacket
where did you get it or like oh my god
your dog is so cute and I would just
thank them and that would just you know
continue walking and this is great I
love this culture of giving compliments
to strangers in the street I think it's
great number two what I notice here is
that people are really focused on
themselves they would not waste their
energy on telling you how you should
live I'm telling you where you should
work on advising you what bills you need
to take to look better or what you
should do to look better they are really
focused on their well-being on their job
on their family and they don't want to
waste their energy and I think America
is one of the most tolerant societies
I've ever lived in and doesn't matter if
you're immigrant transgender have an axe
and don't have an accent
if you're not hurting anyone and
behaving in a good way
people and they're gonna tell you
anything and this is what I love
that's what I mentioned right now like
not wasting energy on others has been
such a big revelation for me when I
first went to the UK from Russia and
what I'm mentioning here it's pretty
much common in the UK Canada Australia
english-speaking countries some European
countries and when I first went away
from my country and I realized wow I can
be whatever I want I can wear whatever I
want I can talk the way I want and
people wouldn't tell me anything I was
just amazed how much freedom that gives
you and you know you just you're just
flying with your dreams you're doing
whatever you want and you're not afraid
of the society judging you and if you
want to go through the same
transformations or the same experience
linguae trip comm my managers are doing
free consultations on language trips
abroad so if you don't need a visa to
travel to Europe or like Great Britain
Ireland you can plan your trip in 3 or 4
weeks if you do need a visa it takes 2
or 3 months these days depending on
where you are so plan ahead but you can
also go to Malta which is like a
European zone a lot of countries don't
need a visa for Malta the link is below
are they going to help you free
consultation they're gonna help you find
the right school and find the right
course now let's go to the more
scientific part of this video I'm gonna
talk about phrases and words that
Americans no longer use and that was
still somehow learnt at school and
everyone I'm a bugle of the fifth form
no never
people no longer is people here they say
student I'm a student and when we're
talking about forms which is great of
the 8th grade so we replace for him with
a grade and basically when people talk
when somebody's at school and they want
to talk about their school or which
level they're on they would say I'm in
high school or I'm in kindergarten or
whatever so they wouldn't tell you I'm a
pupil of the fifth floor just drop it
the next word that was in all of our
textbooks suffer come on there are three
meals a day
unless you eat like five times but
whatever if you'd four times a day there
is brunch like breakfast and lunch there
is lunch which is in the middle of the
day 12 p.m. 1:00 p.m. and there's dinner
5 6 7 p.m. depending on your schedule
there is no such thing as supper supper
is something really formal for example
you're graduating from Oxford University
and you're at all that this is this huge
event you have to wear a gown men have
to wear a tuxedo and you have to be old
formal this could be called supper but
they were so most of the times refer to
it as formal dinner and this is what is
widely used America formal dinner not
supper next thing approaching people and
asking them something starting with
madam or ma'am I see this all the time
especially from students from India I
know this is maybe in your culture but
in America nobody asks people something
saying madam maybe if I'm in a hotel
like a five-star hotel and I'm talking
to a concierge he might say madam but
they would most like you say miss not
madam so forget about it cross it out of
your vocabulary if you want to sound
more American if you don't want to sound
weird
don't say madam and yeah just say miss
excuse me miss McGill Co whatever our
use the name of a person like if you're
texting damning me or write in a comment
you can just use my name marina that's
it the next race that will learn to
school how do you do and they showed us
this movie called my fair lady and how
do you do was so calm in that movie but
the problem is this movie is about the
times I think it was like early 20th
century in the UK so it's a long time
ago doesn't have to do anything with
current reality so if you want to ask a
person how he's doing yeah I asked him
how are you doing what's up sometimes
how are you but how you doing is more
common how is your day going but how do
you do it is too formal and a little
awkward what I see a lot step people ask
a question in a form of an affirmative
statement and they
ended with no and question mark we're
going to dinner tomorrow no it's gonna
rain tomorrow no no this is wrong there
is such thing as tag questions which you
can use and they are grammatically
correct it is going to rain tomorrow
isn't it we are going to dinner tonight
aren't we
but again this is really formal I know
it has been in your textbooks people
don't really use tech questions when
they talk to each other they might use
them in Britain English I would just
recommend you asking questions directly
are we going to dinner tonight
do you know if it's gonna rain tomorrow
that's it
easy grammatically correct when you are
talking to me to your English teacher
sometimes he would say excuse me teacher
could you please tell me if I'm making a
mistake here and there so calling a
teacher teacher referring to a t-shirt
as teacher stops at the age of six so if
you're in kindergarten and you have this
teacher you would probably tell them
teacher but if you're older than six
years old you would just refer to your
teacher by name which is pretty common
if the teacher allows that or you would
call them their title plus their last
name mister Brown or professor Smith
that's it
not teacher don't do it another thing I
was talking to an American and this is a
very subtle thing like you're gonna
understand me if your upper intermediate
intermediate advanced this is subtle so
he was like could you pass me a cup of
tea now like yes of course and what he
told me is that if you're an American if
you're a native speaker you would just
say of course sure
here you go or just yes if you are
saying two confirmations like yes and of
course it sounds a little aggressive
like yes of course what did you think I
wouldn't pass you a cup of tea like this
is what's going on in their head of
course they would never tell you that
they were offended or something this is
super subtle they wouldn't even like
notice it but this is something that's
going on in their head like if it's yes
of course it's like what do you think
it's so hard
me to pass a cuppa tea yes of course you
go like to many confirmations I think
that's the thing so if you're just
passing teaches someone to say of course
sure here you go one of those phrases
that's it
mother tongue they would totally
understand what you mean but nobody
actually uses mother tongue everybody
says my first language is Russian my
native language is Russian but I would
never say my mother tongue is Russian it
used to say that I used to say it say
that one who's back in Russia and they
came here who never realized people
don't say mother tongue and I know it's
in every old textbook forget about it
when you forgot a word and you're asking
you're a native speaker friend how do
you call this ma'am wrong because when
you're asking about some things name you
say what do you call this what do you
call this
we call this hard drive what do you call
this not how do you call this okay my
hard drive okay I I have a question for
you if you've ever been to an
english-speaking country
can you please name down in comments
below a major difference that you've
noticed because this is not something
that they would write about in textbooks
and I am willing to put together a
second video based on your comments and
mention you in that video this would be
really really um useful for me cuz there
are things that I notice as well but
they're not too clear for me
and maybe if you read arrayed them in
comments below I'd be like of course
that's true and then I'm gonna mention
them in my next video so please comment
down below with this one big thing that
you've noticed that is different about
either English language spoken by native
speakers or maybe submitters and some
cultural differences that you've noticed
thank you so much for watching this
video up to the very end if you want a
free consultation on a language course
abroad the link is below my managers
from lingo trip will be happy to consult
you and I will see you very soon in my
next videos here no yes subscribe this
channel red button and I will see you
very soon bye-bye